README.md, before:

# my5G-RANTester


![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/LABORA-INF-UFG/my5G-RANTester?color=blue) 
![GitHub go.mod Go version](https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/LABORA-INF-UFG/my5G-RANTester) ![GitHub commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/LABORA-INF-UFG/my5G-RANTester) 
![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/LABORA-INF-UFG/my5G-RANTester)
![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/LABORA-INF-UFG/my5G-RANTester)

<img width="20%" src="docs/media/img/my5g-logo.png" alt="my5g-core"/>

----

my5G-RANTester is a tool that simulates User Equipment (UE) and Next Generation-Radio Access Networks (NG-RANs) for testing any 5G cores on the 3GPP standard (i.e., Release 15). This tool provides stress tests for the control plane and data plane. Moreover, the tests can be played individually for analyzing only one UE or in scale for analyzing hundreds of UE simultaneously.

----
## Installation

**Requirements**

The software requirement:
* Go 1.14.4

The installation can be done directly over the host operating system (OS) or inside a virtual machine (VM). System requirements:
* CPU type: x86-64 (specific model and number of cores only affect performance)
* RAM: 1 GB
* Ubuntu 18.04/20.04 LTS.

**Steps**

Downloading source code:
```
git clone https://github.com/LABORA-INF-UFG/my5G-RANTester.git
```

Install dependencies:
```
cd my5g-RANTester
go mod download 
```
  
Build binary:
```
cd cmd 
go build app.go
```
  
Edit configuration file in config/config.yml:

Change amfif with AMF ip, port and core name that you are testing. In the moment we have two options: free5gcore or open5gs
```yaml
amfif:
  ip: "127.0.0.1"
  port: 38412
  name: "free5gc"
```

Change upif with UPF ip and port(N3).
```yaml
upfif:
  ip: "10.200.200.102"
  port: 2152
```
Check the values in UE(opc,key,amf). This values must be registered by webconsole core and my5gRANTester will use them in all tests.
```yaml
  key: "70d49a71dd1a2b806a25abe0ef749f1e"
  opc: "6f1bf53d624b3a43af6592854e2444c7"
  amf: "8000"
```

Keep attention about imsi because some tests was automatized(load-tests) and will not permit change. If you are using free5gcore you can using script in /dev/includes_ues.sh to added imsi and other information by webconsole. As show below:
```
   ./included_ues.sh -n <number of UEs that you want to test in load tests>  
```

  

## Tests

**Running with template:**
```
cd cmd
./app <with flag that identify type of test>
```

We have now different types of test for testing some kinds of behaviors from Core, that are show below.

- Load-test with UEs in queue*
    - You can use the command to test with number of UEs:
            ``` 
              ./app load-test -n <number of UEs>  
            ```
    - For example for testing with 3 UEs:
            ``` 
              ./app load-test -n 3  
            ```
   
- Load-test with UEs attached at the same time(concurrency) using a unique GNB* 
    - You can use the command to test with number of UEs: 
                ``` 
                 ./app load-test -t -n <number of UEs>  
                ```
    - You can use the command to test with 3 UEs:
              ``` 
                ./app load-test -t -n 3  
              ```
    
- Load-test with UEs attached at the same time(concurrency) using a GNB per UE* 
    - You can use the command to test with number of UEs: 
             ``` ./app load-test -g -n <number of ues> ```
    - You can use the command to test with 3 GNBs, each one with an UE:
             ``` ./app load-test -g -n 3 ```

- Load test with UEs attached at the same time based a poisson and exponential distribution*
              
- Load-test with GNBs 
    - You can use the command to test 10 GNBs attached to core: 
              ``` ./app gnb -n 10  ```            
    - Configurations in config/config.yml.
    
- Test with an UE and a GNB. 
     - You can use command to test: 
              ``` ./app ue ```
     - Configurations in config/config.yml.

## Additional comments
   
For tests with * imsi UEs was automatized and you have to include them in web UI of test core as show below. 

Example: if you want to test 10 UEs you have to included imsi UE range to 2089300000001 from 2089300000010 in web UI. You can change other values in config/config.yml for example opc,k as you interest and used them in testing but imsi and hplmn will follow the range above.
  <p align="">
     <img src="docs/media/img/ues10.png"/> 
  </p>
Example: if you want to test 2 UEs you have to include imsi 2089300000001 and 2089300000002 in web UI of test core.
 <p align="">
     <img src="docs/media/img/ue_configuration.png"/>
 </p>

# Questions
 
For questions and support please send a e-mail message to [my5G team](mailto:my5G.initiative@gmail.com).

Commit message:

updated readme with information about nonlinear tests

README.md, after:

# my5G-RANTester


![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/LABORA-INF-UFG/my5G-RANTester?color=blue) 
![GitHub go.mod Go version](https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/LABORA-INF-UFG/my5G-RANTester) ![GitHub commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/LABORA-INF-UFG/my5G-RANTester) 
![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/LABORA-INF-UFG/my5G-RANTester)
![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/LABORA-INF-UFG/my5G-RANTester)

<img width="20%" src="docs/media/img/my5g-logo.png" alt="my5g-core"/>

----

my5G-RANTester is a tool that simulates User Equipment (UE) and Next Generation-Radio Access Networks (NG-RANs) for testing any 5G cores on the 3GPP standard (i.e., Release 15). This tool provides stress tests for the control plane and data plane. Moreover, the tests can be played individually for analyzing only one UE or in scale for analyzing hundreds of UE simultaneously.

----
## Installation

**Requirements**

The software requirement:
* Go 1.14.4
* GSL 2.6

The installation can be done directly over the host operating system (OS) or inside a virtual machine (VM). System requirements:
* CPU type: x86-64 (specific model and number of cores only affect performance)
* RAM: 1 GB
* Ubuntu 18.04/20.04 LTS.

**Steps**

Install GSL-2.6
```
sudo apt update
sudo apt install gsl-bin
```

Downloading source code:
```
git clone https://github.com/LABORA-INF-UFG/my5G-RANTester.git
```

Install dependencies:
```
cd my5g-RANTester
go mod download
```
  
Build binary:
```
cd cmd 
go build app.go
```
  
Edit configuration file in config/config.yml:

Change amfif with AMF ip, port and core name that you are testing. In the moment we have two options: free5gcore or open5gs
```yaml
amfif:
  ip: "127.0.0.1"
  port: 38412
  name: "free5gc"
```

Change upif with UPF ip and port(N3).
```yaml
upfif:
  ip: "10.200.200.102"
  port: 2152
```
Check the values in UE(opc,key,amf). This values must be registered by webconsole core and my5gRANTester will use them in all tests.
```yaml
  key: "70d49a71dd1a2b806a25abe0ef749f1e"
  opc: "6f1bf53d624b3a43af6592854e2444c7"
  amf: "8000"
```

Keep attention about imsi because some tests was automatized(load-tests) and will not permit change. If you are using free5gcore you can using script in /dev/includes_ues.sh to added imsi and other information by webconsole. As show below:
```
   ./included_ues.sh -n <number of UEs that you want to test in load tests>  
```

  

## Tests

**Running with template:**
```
cd cmd
./app <with flag that identify type of test>
```

If you get this error:
```
./app: error while loading shared libraries: libgsl.so.25: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
```

Please check the path of the GSL dynamic library:
```
LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/usr/local/lib/gsl/
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH
./app
```

We have now different types of test for testing some kinds of behaviors from Core, that are show below.

- Load-test with UEs in queue*
    - You can use the command to test with number of UEs:
            ``` 
              ./app load-test -n <number of UEs>  
            ```
    - For example for testing with 3 UEs:
            ``` 
              ./app load-test -n 3  
            ```
   
- Load-test with UEs attached at the same time(concurrency) using a unique GNB* 
    - You can use the command to test with number of UEs: 
                ``` 
                 ./app load-test -t -n <number of UEs>  
                ```
    - You can use the command to test with 3 UEs:
              ``` 
                ./app load-test -t -n 3  
              ```
    
- Load-test with UEs attached at the same time(concurrency) using a GNB per UE* 
    - You can use the command to test with number of UEs: 
             ``` ./app load-test -g -n <number of ues> ```
    - You can use the command to test with 3 GNBs, each one with an UE:
             ``` ./app load-test -g -n 3 ```

- Load test with UEs attached at the same time based a poisson and exponential distribution*
   - You can use the command to test:
         ``` 
         ./app nlinear-tests -s <samples> -mu <mean> -se <seed>  
         ```
   - Each samples is a random number generate by poisson distribution and means number of UEs attached to Core at the same time.
   - Between each sample has a time duration in seconds defined by Exponential Distribution 
   - Mean and seed is used by Poisson and exponential distribution for generate random numbers.           
- Load-test with GNBs 
    - You can use the command to test 10 GNBs attached to core: 
              ``` ./app gnb -n 10  ```            
    - Configurations in config/config.yml.
    
- Test with an UE and a GNB. 
     - You can use command to test: 
              ``` ./app ue ```
     - Configurations in config/config.yml.

## Additional comments
   
For tests with * imsi UEs was automatized and you have to include them in web UI of test core as show below. 

Example: if you want to test 10 UEs you have to included imsi UE range to 2089300000001 from 2089300000010 in web UI. You can change other values in config/config.yml for example opc,k as you interest and used them in testing but imsi and hplmn will follow the range above.
  <p align="">
     <img src="docs/media/img/ues10.png"/> 
  </p>
Example: if you want to test 2 UEs you have to include imsi 2089300000001 and 2089300000002 in web UI of test core.
 <p align="">
     <img src="docs/media/img/ue_configuration.png"/>
 </p>

# Questions
 
For questions and support please send a e-mail message to [my5G team](mailto:my5G.initiative@gmail.com).
